README.md, before:

# Screen Geometry

![Coverage Badge](./docs/coverage.svg)

[![Validation](https://github.com/nader-eloshaiker/screen-geometry-app/actions/workflows/validation.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/nader-eloshaiker/screen-geometry-app/actions/workflows/validation.yml)
[![CI/CD](https://github.com/nader-eloshaiker/screen-geometry-app/actions/workflows/cicd.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/nader-eloshaiker/screen-geometry-app/actions/workflows/cicd.yml)
[![Release Deployment](https://github.com/nader-eloshaiker/screen-geometry-app/actions/workflows/release.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/nader-eloshaiker/screen-geometry-app/actions/workflows/release.yml)

## Description

This is a tool to help visually compare different screen sizes to help you choose which monitor, phone, or tablet to buy. It does this by overlaying different screen sizes ontop of each other for
easy comparison as well as tabulate the specs.

## Links

### Official App urls

- Production [screengeometry.com](https://screengeometry.com)
- Develop [develop.screengeometry.com](https://develop.screengeometry.com)

### Reports

- [Coverage](https://nader-eloshaiker.github.io/screen-geometry-app/coverage)
- [StoryBook](https://nader-eloshaiker.github.io/screen-geometry-app/storybook)

## App Demo

![Demo video](./public/media/ScreenGeometry.gif)

## Purpose

This app is more for show casing some **Dev Tooling**, **Web Dev Frame Works**, **Testing Practices** and **Automated Deployments**. However, as a bonus, it is a useful tool for _comparing different monitor screen configurations_.
I have been considering what my next monitor purchase will be and it has been difficult to conceptualise the different monitor sizes and aspect ratios when I only own a 27" - 16:9 monitor. So this app also has some utility outside of being a reference for frontend tech.

## How the user interacts with the App

1. Search > User has a search bar a list of preconfigured monitors that can be filtered by user text.
2. Creating a monitor configuration > User must enter at least, a monitor size and an aspect ratio to create a monitor entry.
3. Screen Configuration Table > User data is rendered onto a table. Table allows the user to "_Show/Hide_" a particular screen in the Physical Screen Comparison panel. Moving the mouse over or clinking each column will temporarily highlight the GUI panel and table row.
4. Screen GUI Panel > As user adds a screen configuration it will be displayed with a relative size to the others, allowing to compare screen realestate. Moving mouse over each screen panel, will temporarily highlight the screen outline and the respective table row. Screens that have been hidden, will not be visible in the Screen Comparison Panel.

[Read here](./docs/UserGuide.md) for a more detailed explaination

## Dev'ing the App

Installing dependencies

    npm install -g pnpm
    pnpm i

Run in development (using vite)

    pnpm run dev

Linting

    pnpm run lint:fix

Build (using vite)

    pnpm run build

Generate API Client\*\* (using orval)
Code is checked in for review ease. This can also help when working on a 'work in progress' published spec, as it allows the developer to control which spec the client is generated from in other feature branches and in main branches.

    pnpm run gen:spec

## Architecture

This app generally follows a typical SPA (single page application) and access data from a backend using REST. However, given the simplicity of the app and its purpose, it does not require a fully fledged backend. This has lead to some unique design decisions.

- The host will serve not only the WebApp, but also, a JSON file containing a list of preconfigured popular screen configuration available to consumers.
- When the web browser executes the WebApp, on initialisation, it will fetch the JSON file as it would any other asset used by the app.
- This will then be used to pre-populate the search bar, allowing user to pick from a list of configurations rather than having to manually fill out the form.
- API calls are made for typical CRUD operations for the user configured screens.
- API calls are intercepted and routed to a frontend stub that runs in the browser as part of the WebApp
- The stub access the browser IndexedDB to persist the data

This approach literally is a **Serverless implementation** but also allow for a future enhancement for a real server to persist the user data without a major refactor of the frontend architecture.

Refer to the diagram below for a visual representation.

```mermaid
graph TB
subgraph sub1[Static Asset Host]
sub1A("WebApp")
sub1B[("Static Data (JSON)")]
end

subgraph sub2[Web Browser]
sub2A{User}
sub2B[(IndexedDB)]
end

subgraph sub3[Local WebApp]
sub3A(HTML/JavaScript)
sub3B(API)
sub3C(HTTP Client)
sub3D(Interceptor)
sub3E(Stub)
end

sub1A -- Download--> sub3A
sub3A --Request--> sub1B

sub3A --> sub2A
sub2A --> sub3A

sub3A -.- sub3B
sub3B -.- sub3C
sub3C -.- sub3D
sub3D -.- sub3E

sub3E --Store Mutated Data--> sub2B
sub2B --Retrieve Mutated Data--> sub3E
```

## Dev Tooling

### Orval

#### Description

Orval is a client API code generator. It takes an [OpenAPI or Swagger spec](https://swagger.io/specification/) (in yaml format) and generates not only the the endpoints complete with urls, but also the data models exchanged between client and server. You can read more here [orval.dev](https://orval.dev/) Note that there are many more tools such as one from Swagger themselves called [OpenAPI Tools](https://github.com/OpenAPITools/openapi-generator) and [Redux Toolkit OpenAPI code-generator](https://redux-toolkit.js.org/rtk-query/usage/code-generation). These are all very good tools, I just settled on this one because the generated code was easy to ready and allowed me to choose the underlying HTTP framework.

#### One source of truth

It is supremely accepted that the API spec is the only source of truth for the endpoint. It is the blueprint for the backend and it continually amazes me how little frontend developers refer to it. It is quite common to see human error in frontend API's due to referring to either word of mouth or Jira cards for the Endpoint spec, rather than referring the the OpenAPI/Swagger spec.

#### Reduced development time and effort

You are nolonger have to hand code all the api calls, just import the spec file and run the generator. Within seconds, you have all the api calls and the data models. You will also be assured that the models and urls are identical to the backend.
Another bonus is that you do not have to (and nor should you) write tests for the generated code, you just need to stub them as the generated code is already tested by the authors of the tool. Just remember to exclude it the folder containing the code from the linter, prettier, test runner, coverage reporter, etc.

#### Agile Development

Before starting frontend and backend engineers start development, it is encouraged that a 1 point card be created for the two engineers to sit down and hand craft the new or modified API together, referring to any design or wireframe guide. With the spec generated, this will allow the engineers to work in parallel on the feature, with the confidence that the end result will successfully integrate.

### Vite

I discovered this little gem to replace pnpm and it is lightning quick. You can read more about [Vite](https://vitejs.dev/), but to summarise what they have on their site for convenience:

- `Instant Server Start` On demand file serving over native ESM, no bundling required!
- `Lightning Fast HMR` Hot Module Replacement (HMR) that stays fast regardless of app size.
- `Rich Features` Out-of-the-box support for TypeScript, JSX, CSS and more.
- `Optimized Build` Pre-configured Rollup build with multi-page and library mode support.
- `Universal Plugins` Rollup-superset plugin interface shared between dev and build.
- `Fully Typed APIs` Flexible programmatic APIs with full TypeScript typing.

### Language

- ESlint
- Prettier
- PNPM
  - pnpm is up to 2x faster than npm
  - Files inside node_modules are cloned or hard linked from a single content-addressable storage
  - pnpm has built-in support for multiple packages in a repository
  - pnpm creates a non-flat node_modules by default, so code has no access to arbitrary packages

## Web Dev Frameworks

### Core

- TypeScript
  - This is such an important addition to JavaScript when generating code from an API Spec. Just remember that defining a `type` on an API response is ill advised, stick with `interface`.
  - Type safety may mean more code, but it also means less unit tests and more importantly, less bugs. I remember the days when your code will break unexpectedly due to a missing or incorrect prop!
- React
  - `<StrictMode>` :-(
  - Hooks
  - Functional Components
- React-Router-Dom
- React-Hook-Form
- YUP (Form Resolver)

### GUI

- Styled Components
- TailwindCSS
- DaisyUI
- StoryBook

### API

- Axios
- React-Query
- Orval
  - Orval allows the developer to choose which HTTP client is to be used as the underlying framework to actually make the fetch call, in this case React-Query with AXIOS
- localforage

## DevOps

### GitHub Actions Workflow

#### CI/CD

The repo makes use of GitHub actions for running actions, GitHub pages for hosting reports and Cloudflare for hosting the app

Actions are triggered on the following events:

##### Push to feature branch: Run Validation Action

Run Validation step consisting of:

- pnpm cache management to store dependencies based on package lock hash
- install
- build
- lint
- unit tests
- report coverage

##### Push to main branch from feature branch: Run CI/CD Action

- Run validation step
- pnpm cache management to store dependencies based on package lock hash
- Generate a PR release to main with version bump and changelog if not preset or else update existing
- Build and deploy app with source map for debugging to cloudflare pages develop environment using [https://develop.screengeometry.pages.dev](https://develop.screengeometry.pages.dev)
- Build and deploy storybook asset to github pages [https://nader-eloshaiker.github.io/screen-geometry-app/storybook](https://nader-eloshaiker.github.io/screen-geometry-app/storybook)
- Build and deploy coverage asset to github pages[https://nader-eloshaiker.github.io/screen-geometry-app/coverage](https://nader-eloshaiker.github.io/screen-geometry-app/coverage)

##### Push to release branch

- Run validation step, this is to facilitate merging back to main.

##### Push to main from release branch: Run Release Deployment Action

- Run validation step
- pnpm cache management to store dependencies based on package lock hash
- Build production and deploy app to cloudflare pages production environment using [https://staging.screengeometry.pages.dev](https://staging.screengeometry.pages.dev)

## GitOps

### Develop Branch

THERE IS NO DEVELOP BRANCH.

This repo uses trunk based releasing.

### Feature Branch

All changes are expected to be done using a feature branch and all commits must follow the semVer standard.

Every commit must be prefixed so that semVer can be generated for a release.

Release Please assumes you are using Conventional Commit messages.

The most important prefixes you should have in mind are:

- fix: which represents bug fixes, and correlates to a SemVer patch.
- feat: which represents a new feature, and correlates to a SemVer minor.
- feat!:, or fix!:, refactor!:, etc., which represent a breaking change (indicated by the !) and will result in a SemVer major.

### Main Branch | Default Branch

All merges to this branch must be done via a pull request.

On merge from feature, the release pr is either generated or if one exists, then it is updated according to the semVer and commit history. An accompanying tag is also generated in the pr.

When the release pr is merged to main, then a release is deployed to production.

All merges to this branch require **Tests Passed** and **CodeQL** statuses before they are able to proceed with the merge. This includes the release branches/prs.

### Workflow

```mermaid
gitGraph

commit
commit
commit tag: "v1.0.0"

branch featureA order: 1
commit id: "feat(1):"
commit id: "fix(2):"
checkout main
merge featureA

branch release order: 4
commit tag: "v1.1.0"

checkout main
branch featureB order: 2
commit id: "chore(3):"
checkout main
merge featureB

checkout release
merge main
commit tag: "v1.1.0"

checkout main
branch featureC order: 3
commit id: "feat!(4):"
commit id: "feat(5):"
checkout main
merge featureC

checkout release
merge main
commit tag: "v2.0.0"
checkout main
merge release tag: "release v2.0.0"


```

## Testing

### Unit

Testing makes use of [Vitest](https://vitest.dev/) which is a test runner much like Jest but integrates with the Vite tranformation pipeline and configuration.
It provides a compatible api with Jest making it a drop in raplacement but runs significantly faster than Jest.

#### Run test

Initiating test runs and watching for changes is excuted using

    pnpm run test

However, you can bring up a visual console for testing using

    pnpm run test:ui

#### Test dashboard

The console can be accessed from the [http://localhost](http://localhost:51204/__vitest__/#/)
They are also published to github pages at [Coverage](https://nader-eloshaiker.github.io/screen-geometry-app/coverage)

#### Coverage Reports

Coverage reports are also generated and can be access from from within the testing console above

### Component

Storybook interactions is utilised to run a visual test on managed components.

### Smoke

Commit message:

docs: document new testing and implementation of mswjs

README.md, after:

# Screen Geometry

![Coverage Badge](./docs/coverage.svg)

[![Validation](https://github.com/nader-eloshaiker/screen-geometry-app/actions/workflows/validation.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/nader-eloshaiker/screen-geometry-app/actions/workflows/validation.yml)
[![CI/CD](https://github.com/nader-eloshaiker/screen-geometry-app/actions/workflows/cicd.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/nader-eloshaiker/screen-geometry-app/actions/workflows/cicd.yml)
[![Release Deployment](https://github.com/nader-eloshaiker/screen-geometry-app/actions/workflows/release.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/nader-eloshaiker/screen-geometry-app/actions/workflows/release.yml)

## Description

This is a tool to help visually compare different screen sizes to help you choose which monitor, phone, or tablet to buy. It does this by overlaying different screen sizes ontop of each other for
easy comparison as well as tabulate the specs.

## Links

### Official App urls

- Production [screengeometry.com](https://screengeometry.com)
- Develop [develop.screengeometry.com](https://develop.screengeometry.com)

### Reports

- [Coverage](https://nader-eloshaiker.github.io/screen-geometry-app/coverage)
- [StoryBook](https://nader-eloshaiker.github.io/screen-geometry-app/storybook)

## App Demo

![Demo video](./public/media/ScreenGeometry.gif)

## Purpose

This app is more for show casing some **Dev Tooling**, **Web Dev Frame Works**, **Testing Practices** and **Automated Deployments**. However, as a bonus, it is a useful tool for _comparing different monitor screen configurations_.
I have been considering what my next monitor purchase will be and it has been difficult to conceptualise the different monitor sizes and aspect ratios when I only own a 27" - 16:9 monitor. So this app also has some utility outside of being a reference for frontend tech.

## How the user interacts with the App

1. Search > User has a search bar a list of preconfigured monitors that can be filtered by user text.
2. Creating a monitor configuration > User must enter at least, a monitor size and an aspect ratio to create a monitor entry.
3. Screen Configuration Table > User data is rendered onto a table. Table allows the user to "_Show/Hide_" a particular screen in the Physical Screen Comparison panel. Moving the mouse over or clinking each column will temporarily highlight the GUI panel and table row.
4. Screen GUI Panel > As user adds a screen configuration it will be displayed with a relative size to the others, allowing to compare screen realestate. Moving mouse over each screen panel, will temporarily highlight the screen outline and the respective table row. Screens that have been hidden, will not be visible in the Screen Comparison Panel.

[Read here](./docs/UserGuide.md) for a more detailed explaination

## Dev'ing the App

Installing dependencies

    npm install -g pnpm
    pnpm i

Run in development (using vite)

    pnpm run dev

Linting

    pnpm run lint:fix

Build (using vite)

    pnpm run build

Generate API Client\*\* (using orval)
Code is checked in for review ease. This can also help when working on a 'work in progress' published spec, as it allows the developer to control which spec the client is generated from in other feature branches and in main branches.

    pnpm run gen:spec

## Architecture

This app generally follows a typical SPA (single page application) and access data from a backend using REST. However, given the simplicity of the app and its purpose, it does not require a fully fledged backend. This has lead to some unique design decisions.

- API calls are made for typical CRUD operations for all the user generated content.
- API calls are intercepted and routed to a frontend mock service that runs in the browser as part of the WebApp using a [Mock Service Worker](https://mswjs.io/)).
- The mock accesses the browser's IndexedDB to persist the data and an in-browser search engine.

This approach literally is a **Serverless implementation** but also allows for a future enhancement to implement a real server to search and persist the user data without a major refactor of the frontend architecture.

Refer to the diagram below for a visual representation.

```mermaid
graph TB
subgraph sub1[Static Asset Host]
sub1A("WebApp")
end

subgraph sub2[Web Browser]
sub2A{User}
sub2B[(IndexedDB)]
end

subgraph sub3[Local WebApp]
sub3A(HTML/JavaScript)
sub3B(API)
sub3C(HTTP Client)
sub3D(Mock Service Worker)
sub3E(Mock)
end

sub1A -- Download--> sub3A
sub3A --Request--> sub1B

sub3A --> sub2A
sub2A --> sub3A

sub3A -.- sub3B
sub3B -.- sub3C
sub3C -.- sub3D
sub3D -.- sub3E

sub3E --Store Mutated Data--> sub2B
sub2B --Retrieve Mutated Data--> sub3E
```

## Dev Tooling

### Orval

#### Description

Orval is a client API code generator. It takes an [OpenAPI or Swagger spec](https://swagger.io/specification/) (in yaml format) and generates not only the the endpoints complete with urls, but also the data models exchanged between client and server. You can read more here [orval.dev](https://orval.dev/) Note that there are many more tools such as one from Swagger themselves called [OpenAPI Tools](https://github.com/OpenAPITools/openapi-generator) and [Redux Toolkit OpenAPI code-generator](https://redux-toolkit.js.org/rtk-query/usage/code-generation). These are all very good tools, I just settled on this one because the generated code was easy to ready and allowed me to choose the underlying HTTP framework.

#### Output

Orval has been configure to generate:

- Services using [React Query](https://tanstack.com/query) with [AXIOS](https://axios-http.com/) as the HTTP Client
- Data models within the API calls.
- Mock data from the `exmaples` field in the OpenAPI Spec that utilises [Mock Service Worker](https://mswjs.io/)

#### One source of truth

It is supremely accepted that the API spec is the only source of truth for the endpoint. It is the blueprint for the backend and it continually amazes me how little frontend developers refer to it. It is quite common to see human error in frontend API's due to referring to either word of mouth or Jira cards for the Endpoint spec, rather than referring the the OpenAPI/Swagger spec.

#### Reduced development time and effort

You are nolonger have to hand code all the api calls, just import the spec file and run the generator. Within seconds, you have all the api calls and the data models. You will also be assured that the models and urls are identical to the backend.
Another bonus is that you do not have to (and nor should you) write tests for the generated code, you just need to stub them as the generated code is already tested by the authors of the tool. Just remember to exclude it the folder containing the code from the linter, prettier, test runner, coverage reporter, etc.

#### Agile Development

Before starting frontend and backend engineers start development, it is encouraged that a 1 point card be created for the two engineers to sit down and hand craft the new or modified API together, referring to any design or wireframe guide. With the spec generated, this will allow the engineers to work in parallel on the feature, with the confidence that the end result will successfully integrate.

### Vite

I discovered this little gem to replace pnpm and it is lightning quick. You can read more about [Vite](https://vitejs.dev/), but to summarise what they have on their site for convenience:

- `Instant Server Start` On demand file serving over native ESM, no bundling required!
- `Lightning Fast HMR` Hot Module Replacement (HMR) that stays fast regardless of app size.
- `Rich Features` Out-of-the-box support for TypeScript, JSX, CSS and more.
- `Optimized Build` Pre-configured Rollup build with multi-page and library mode support.
- `Universal Plugins` Rollup-superset plugin interface shared between dev and build.
- `Fully Typed APIs` Flexible programmatic APIs with full TypeScript typing.

### Language

- ESlint
- Prettier
- PNPM
  - pnpm is up to 2x faster than npm
  - Files inside node_modules are cloned or hard linked from a single content-addressable storage
  - pnpm has built-in support for multiple packages in a repository
  - pnpm creates a non-flat node_modules by default, so code has no access to arbitrary packages

## Web Dev Frameworks

### Core

- TypeScript
  - This is such an important addition to JavaScript when generating code from an API Spec. Just remember that defining a `type` on an API response is ill advised, stick with `interface`.
  - Type safety may mean more code, but it also means less unit tests and more importantly, less bugs. I remember the days when your code will break unexpectedly due to a missing or incorrect prop!
- React
  - `<StrictMode>` :-(
  - Hooks
  - Functional Components
- React-Router-Dom
- React-Hook-Form
- YUP (Form Resolver)

### GUI

- Styled Components
- TailwindCSS
- DaisyUI
- StoryBook

### API

- Axios
- React-Query
- Orval
  - Orval allows the developer to choose which HTTP client is to be used as the underlying framework to actually make the fetch call, in this case React-Query with AXIOS
- localforage

## DevOps

### GitHub Actions Workflow

#### CI/CD

The repo makes use of GitHub actions for running actions, GitHub pages for hosting reports and Cloudflare for hosting the app

Actions are triggered on the following events:

##### Push to feature branch: Run Validation Action

Run Validation step consisting of:

- pnpm cache management to store dependencies based on package lock hash
- install
- build
- lint
- unit tests
- report coverage

##### Push to main branch from feature branch: Run CI/CD Action

- Run validation step
- pnpm cache management to store dependencies based on package lock hash
- Generate a PR release to main with version bump and changelog if not preset or else update existing
- Build and deploy app with source map for debugging to cloudflare pages develop environment using [https://develop.screengeometry.pages.dev](https://develop.screengeometry.pages.dev)
- Build and deploy storybook asset to github pages [https://nader-eloshaiker.github.io/screen-geometry-app/storybook](https://nader-eloshaiker.github.io/screen-geometry-app/storybook)
- Build and deploy coverage asset to github pages[https://nader-eloshaiker.github.io/screen-geometry-app/coverage](https://nader-eloshaiker.github.io/screen-geometry-app/coverage)

##### Push to release branch

- Run validation step, this is to facilitate merging back to main.

##### Push to main from release branch: Run Release Deployment Action

- Run validation step
- pnpm cache management to store dependencies based on package lock hash
- Build production and deploy app to cloudflare pages production environment using [https://staging.screengeometry.pages.dev](https://staging.screengeometry.pages.dev)

## GitOps

### Develop Branch

THERE IS NO DEVELOP BRANCH.

This repo uses trunk based releasing.

### Feature Branch

All changes are expected to be done using a feature branch and all commits must follow the semVer standard.

Every commit must be prefixed so that semVer can be generated for a release.

Release Please assumes you are using Conventional Commit messages.

The most important prefixes you should have in mind are:

- fix: which represents bug fixes, and correlates to a SemVer patch.
- feat: which represents a new feature, and correlates to a SemVer minor.
- feat!:, or fix!:, refactor!:, etc., which represent a breaking change (indicated by the !) and will result in a SemVer major.

### Main Branch | Default Branch

All merges to this branch must be done via a pull request.

On merge from feature, the release pr is either generated or if one exists, then it is updated according to the semVer and commit history. An accompanying tag is also generated in the pr.

When the release pr is merged to main, then a release is deployed to production.

All merges to this branch require **Tests Passed** and **CodeQL** statuses before they are able to proceed with the merge. This includes the release branches/prs.

### Workflow

```mermaid
gitGraph

commit
commit
commit tag: "v1.0.0"

branch featureA order: 1
commit id: "feat(1):"
commit id: "fix(2):"
checkout main
merge featureA

branch release order: 4
commit tag: "v1.1.0"

checkout main
branch featureB order: 2
commit id: "chore(3):"
checkout main
merge featureB

checkout release
merge main
commit tag: "v1.1.0"

checkout main
branch featureC order: 3
commit id: "feat!(4):"
commit id: "feat(5):"
checkout main
merge featureC

checkout release
merge main
commit tag: "v2.0.0"
checkout main
merge release tag: "release v2.0.0"


```

## Testing

### Unit

Testing makes use of [Vitest](https://vitest.dev/) which is a test runner much like Jest but integrates with the Vite tranformation pipeline and configuration.
It provides a compatible api with Jest making it a drop in raplacement but runs significantly faster than Jest.

The mock data that was generated using Orval from the `example` field of the OpenAPI spec, is used to provision an instance of [MSWjs](https://mswjs.io/) specifically used for unit testing.

#### Run test

Initiating test runs and watching for changes is excuted using

    pnpm run test

However, you can bring up a visual console for testing using

    pnpm run test:ui

#### Test dashboard

The console can be accessed from the [http://localhost](http://localhost:51204/__vitest__/#/)
They are also published to github pages at [Coverage](https://nader-eloshaiker.github.io/screen-geometry-app/coverage)

#### Coverage Reports

Coverage reports are also generated and can be access from from within the testing console above

### Component

Storybook interactions is utilised to run a visual test on managed components.

### Smoke
