docs/Testing.md, before:

# Testing

## Unit

Testing makes use of [Vitest](https://vitest.dev/) which is a test runner much like Jest but integrates with the Vite tranformation pipeline and configuration.
It provides a compatible api with Jest making it a drop in raplacement but runs significantly faster than Jest.

### Run test

Initiating test runs and watching for changes is excuted using

    pnpm run test

However, you can bring up a visual console for testing using

    pnpm run test:ui

### Test dashboard

The console can be accessed from the [http://localhost](http://localhost:51204/__vitest__/#/)
They are also published to github pages at [Coverage](https://nader-eloshaiker.github.io/screen-geometry-app/coverage)

### Coverage Reports

Coverage reports are also generated and can be access from from within the testing console above. They are also published to [Coverage Reports](https://nader-eloshaiker.github.io/screen-geometry-app/coverage)

## API Mocking

MockServiceWorker or [mswjs](https://mswjs.io/), is used to intercept API request and serve responses directly. This is utilised in a node testing environment (unit testing environment) using a node interceptor and in browser testing environment (end to end testing environment) using a service worker.

The mock data that was generated using Orval from the `example` field of the OpenAPI spec, is used to provision an instance of mswjs specifically used for unit testing.

## Component

[Storybook interactions](https://storybook.js.org/docs/essentials/interactions) is utilised to run a visual test on managed components. They are also published to [StoryBook Reports](https://nader-eloshaiker.github.io/screen-geometry-app/storybook)

## Smoke

Commit message:

22 add a smoke test (#299)
* chore(test): add vitest vscode plugin to suggestions

* feat(test): add playwright

* feat(test): add smoke test

* feat(test): run smoke test with validation

* fix(test): revert change to screen panel

* chore(doc): update testing documentation

docs/Testing.md, after:

# Testing

## Unit

Testing makes use of [Vitest](https://vitest.dev/) which is a test runner much like Jest but integrates with the Vite tranformation pipeline and configuration.
It provides a compatible api with Jest making it a drop in raplacement but runs significantly faster than Jest.

### Run test

Initiating test runs and watching for changes is excuted using

    pnpm test

However, you can bring up a visual console for testing using

    pnpm test:ui

### Test dashboard

The console can be accessed from the [http://localhost](http://localhost:51204/__vitest__/#/)
They are also published to github pages at [Coverage](https://nader-eloshaiker.github.io/screen-geometry-app/coverage)

### Coverage Reports

Coverage reports are also generated and can be access from from within the testing console above. They are also published to [Coverage Reports](https://nader-eloshaiker.github.io/screen-geometry-app/coverage)

## API Mocking

MockServiceWorker or [mswjs](https://mswjs.io/), is used to intercept API request and serve responses directly. This is utilised in a node testing environment (unit testing environment) using a node interceptor and in browser testing environment (end to end testing environment) using a service worker.

The mock data that was generated using Orval from the `example` field of the OpenAPI spec, is used to provision an instance of mswjs specifically used for unit testing.

## Component

[Storybook interactions](https://storybook.js.org/docs/essentials/interactions) is utilised to run a visual test on managed components. They are also published to [StoryBook Reports](https://nader-eloshaiker.github.io/screen-geometry-app/storybook)

## Smoke /E2E

### Run test

End to end testing uses [PlayWright](https://playwright.dev/)

The primary reason for using this tool, is its ability to [codegen](https://playwright.dev/docs/codegen) tests which makes for far more efficient process for authoring end to end testing.

Initiating test runs and watching for changes is excuted using

    pnpm e2e

However, you can bring up a visual console for testing using

    pnpm e2e:ui

Visual reporting can be run using

    pnpm e2e:report
